doc/index.markdown, before:

__Rack::Cache__ is suitable as a quick drop-in component to enable HTTP caching
for [Rack][]-based applications that produce freshness (`Expires`,
`Cache-Control`) and/or validation (`Last-Modified`, `ETag`) information.

  * Standards-based ([RFC 2616][rfc] / [Section 13][s13]).
  * Freshness/expiration based caching
  * Validation
  * Vary Support
  * Portable: 100% Ruby / works with any [Rack][]-enabled framework.
  * [Configuration language][config] for advanced caching policies.
  * Disk, memcached, and heap memory [storage backends][storage].

Status
------

__Rack::Cache__ is a young and experimental project that is likely to
change substantially and may not be wholly functional, consistent,
fast, or correct. The current focus is on reaching basic compliance
with RFC 2616 and providing good documentation.

Installation
------------

    $ sudo gem install rack-cache

Or, from a local working copy:

    $ git clone git://github.com/rtomayko/rack-cache.git
    $ rake package && sudo rake install

Basic Usage
-----------

__Rack::Cache__ is implemented as a piece of [Rack][] middleware and can be used
with any __Rack__-based application. If your application includes a rackup
(`.ru`) file or uses __Rack::Builder__ to construct the application pipeline,
simply `require` and `use` as follows:

    require 'rack/cache'

    use Rack::Cache,
      :verbose     => true,
      :metastore   => 'file:/var/cache/rack/meta'
      :entitystore => 'file:/var/cache/rack/body'

    run app

Assuming you've designed your backend application to take advantage of HTTP's
caching features, no further code or configuration is required for basic
caching. More sophisticated stuff is possible with [Rack::Cache's Configuration
Language][config].

Advanced Usage
--------------

  * [Configuration Language Documentation][config] - How to customize cache
    policy using the simple event-based configuration system.

  * [Cache Storage Documentation][storage] - Detailed information on the various
    storage implementations available in __Rack::Cache__ and how to choose the one
    that's best for your application.

  * [FAQ](./faq) - Frequently Asked Questions about __Rack::Cache__.

  * [GitHub Repository](http://github.com/rtomayko/rack-cache/) - Get your
    fork on.

  * [RDoc API Documentation](./api/) - Mostly worthless if you just want to use
    __Rack::Cache__ in your application but mildly insightful if you'd like to
    get a feel for how the system has been put together; I recommend
    [reading the source](http://github.com/rtomayko/rack-cache/master/lib/rack/cache).

See Also
--------

The overall design of __Rack::Cache__ is based largely on the work of the
internet standards community. The following resources provide a good starting
point for exploring the basic concepts of HTTP caching:

  * Mark Nottingham's [Caching Tutorial](http://www.mnot.net/cache_docs/),
    especially the short section on
    [How Web Caches Work](http://www.mnot.net/cache_docs/#WORK)

  * Joe Gregorio's [Doing HTTP Caching Right](http://www.xml.com/lpt/a/1642)

  * [RFC 2616](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2616.txt), especially
    [Section 13, "Caching in HTTP"](http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec13.html)

__Rack::Cache__ takes (_liberally_) various concepts from
[Varnish](http://varnish.projects.linpro.no/) and
[Django's cache framework](http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/cache/).

License
-------

__Rack::Cache__ is Copyright &copy; 2008
by [Ryan Tomayko](http://tomayko.com/about)
and is provided under [the MIT license](./license)

[config]:  ./configuration "Rack::Cache Configuration Language Documentation"
[storage]: ./storage       "Rack::Cache Storage Documentation"

[rfc]: http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616
  "RFC 2616 - Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1 [ietf.org]"

[s13]: http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-13
  "RFC 2616 / Section 13 Caching in HTTP"

[rack]: http://rack.rubyforge.org/
  "Rack: a Ruby Webserver Interface"

[vcl]: http://tomayko.com/man/vcl
  "VCL(7) -- Varnish Configuration Language Manual Page"

Commit message:

add links to "Things Caches Do" in doc; update README

doc/index.markdown, after:

__Rack::Cache__ is suitable as a quick drop-in component to enable HTTP caching
for [Rack][]-based applications that produce freshness (`Expires`,
`Cache-Control`) and/or validation (`Last-Modified`, `ETag`) information.

  * Standards-based ([RFC 2616][rfc] / [Section 13][s13]).
  * Freshness/expiration based caching
  * Validation
  * Vary Support
  * Portable: 100% Ruby / works with any [Rack][]-enabled framework.
  * [Configuration language][config] for advanced caching policies.
  * Disk, memcached, and heap memory [storage backends][storage].

Status
------

__Rack::Cache__ is a young and experimental project that is likely to
change substantially and may not be wholly functional, consistent,
fast, or correct. The current focus is on reaching basic compliance
with RFC 2616 and providing good documentation.

Installation
------------

    $ sudo gem install rack-cache

Or, from a local working copy:

    $ git clone git://github.com/rtomayko/rack-cache.git
    $ rake package && sudo rake install

Basic Usage
-----------

__Rack::Cache__ is implemented as a piece of [Rack][] middleware and can be used
with any __Rack__-based application. If your application includes a rackup
(`.ru`) file or uses __Rack::Builder__ to construct the application pipeline,
simply `require` and `use` as follows:

    require 'rack/cache'

    use Rack::Cache,
      :verbose     => true,
      :metastore   => 'file:/var/cache/rack/meta'
      :entitystore => 'file:/var/cache/rack/body'

    run app

Assuming you've designed your backend application to take advantage of HTTP's
caching features, no further code or configuration is required for basic
caching.

Advanced Usage
--------------

  * [Configuration Language Documentation][config] - How to customize cache
    policy using the simple event-based configuration system.

  * [Cache Storage Documentation][storage] - Detailed information on the various
    storage implementations available in __Rack::Cache__ and how to choose the one
    that's best for your application.

  * [Things Caches Do][things] - An illustrated guide to how HTTP gateway
    caches work with pointers to other useful resources on HTTP caching.

  * [FAQ](./faq) - Frequently Asked Questions about __Rack::Cache__.

  * [GitHub Repository](http://github.com/rtomayko/rack-cache/) - Get your
    fork on.

  * [RDoc API Documentation](./api/) - Mostly worthless if you just want to use
    __Rack::Cache__ in your application but mildly insightful if you'd like to
    get a feel for how the system has been put together; I recommend
    [reading the source](http://github.com/rtomayko/rack-cache/master/lib/rack/cache).


See Also
--------

The overall design of __Rack::Cache__ is based largely on the work of the
internet standards community. The following resources provide a good starting
point for exploring the basic concepts of HTTP caching:

  * Mark Nottingham's [Caching Tutorial](http://www.mnot.net/cache_docs/),
    especially the short section on
    [How Web Caches Work](http://www.mnot.net/cache_docs/#WORK)

  * Joe Gregorio's [Doing HTTP Caching Right](http://www.xml.com/lpt/a/1642)

  * [RFC 2616](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2616.txt), especially
    [Section 13, "Caching in HTTP"](http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec13.html)

__Rack::Cache__ takes (_liberally_) various concepts from
[Varnish](http://varnish.projects.linpro.no/) and
[Django's cache framework](http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/cache/).

License
-------

__Rack::Cache__ is Copyright &copy; 2008
by [Ryan Tomayko](http://tomayko.com/about)
and is provided under [the MIT license](./license)

[config]:  ./configuration "Rack::Cache Configuration Language Documentation"
[storage]: ./storage       "Rack::Cache Storage Documentation"
[things]:  http://tomayko.com/writings/things-caches-do

[rfc]: http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616
  "RFC 2616 - Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1 [ietf.org]"

[s13]: http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-13
  "RFC 2616 / Section 13 Caching in HTTP"

[rack]: http://rack.rubyforge.org/
  "Rack: a Ruby Webserver Interface"

[vcl]: http://tomayko.com/man/vcl
  "VCL(7) -- Varnish Configuration Language Manual Page"
